{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Futura-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Futura-Medium;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Futura-MediumItalic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red33\green33\blue39;\red255\green255\blue255;\red22\green174\blue174;
\red77\green173\blue74;\red77\green173\blue74;\red205\green76\blue92;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c17255\c17255\c20392;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c72941\c73725;
\cssrgb\c36078\c72157\c36078;\cssrgb\c36078\c72157\c36078\c4706;\cssrgb\c84706\c38824\c43529;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Introduction\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Please comply with the following rules:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Remain polite, courteous, respectful and constructive throughout the\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 evaluation process. The well-being of the community depends on it.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Identify with the student or group whose work is evaluated the possible\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 dysfunctions in their project. Take the time to discuss and debate the\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 problems that may have been identified.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - You must consider that there might be some differences in how your peers\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 might have understood the project's instructions and the scope of its\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 functionalities. Always keep an open mind and grade them as honestly as\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 possible. The pedagogy is useful only and only if the peer-evaluation is\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 done seriously.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Guidelines\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 - Only grade the work that was turned in the Git repository of the evaluated\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 student or group.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Double-check that the Git repository belongs to the student(s). Ensure that\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 the project is the one expected. Also, check that "git clone" is used in an\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 empty folder.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Check carefully that no malicious aliases was used to fool you and make you\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 evaluate something that is not the content of the official repository.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - To avoid any surprises and if applicable, review together any scripts used\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 to facilitate the grading (scripts for testing or automation).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - If you have not completed the assignment you are going to evaluate, you have\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 to read the entire subject prior to starting the evaluation process.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Use the available flags to report an empty repository, a non-functioning\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 program, a Norm error, cheating, and so forth.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In these cases, the evaluation process ends and the final grade is 0,\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 or -42 in case of cheating. However, except for cheating, student are\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 strongly encouraged to review together the work that was turned in, in order\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 to identify any mistakes that shouldn't be repeated in the future.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Attachments\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cdn.intra.42.fr/pdf/pdf/34185/en.subject.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 subject.pdf}}
\fs32 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Preliminaries\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 If cheating is suspected, the evaluation stops here. Use the "Cheat" flag to report it. Take this decision calmly, wisely, and please, use this button with caution.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\i0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 Preliminary tests\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 - Defense can only happen if the student being evaluated or group is present.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This way everybody learns by sharing knowledge with each other.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - If no work has been submitted (or wrong files, wrong directory, or\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 wrong filenames), the grade is 0, and the evaluation process ends.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - For this project, you have to clone their Git repository on their\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 station.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 \'a0Yes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb7 \strokec3 \'a0No\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 General instructions\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\b0\fs32 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\i0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 General instructions\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 - During the defense, as soon as you need help to verify a point, the student\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 evaluated must help you.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Ensure that the "signature.txt" file is present at the root of the cloned\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 repository.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Check that the signature contained in "signature.txt" is identical\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 to that of the ".vdi" file of the virtual machine to be evaluated. A simple\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 "diff" should allow you to compare the two signatures. If necessary, ask the\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 student being evaluated where their ".vdi" file is located.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - As a precaution, you can duplicate the initial virtual machine in order\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 to keep a copy.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Start the virtual machine to be evaluated.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - If something doesn't work as expected or the two signatures differ,\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 \'a0Yes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb7 \strokec3 \'a0No\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Mandatory part\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 The project consists of creating and configuring a virtual machine following strict rules. The student being evaluated will have to help you during the defense. Make sure that all of the following points are observed.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\i0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 Project overview\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 - The student being evaluated should explain to you simply:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - How a virtual machine works.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Their choice of operating system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - The basic differences between CentOS and Debian.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - The purpose of virtual machines.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - If the evaluated student chose CentOS: what SELinux and DNF are.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - If the evaluated student chose Debian: the difference between\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 aptitude and apt, and what APPArmor is.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 During the defense, a script must display information all\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 every 10 minutes. Its operation will be checked in detail later.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 If the explanations are not clear, the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 \'a0Yes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb7 \strokec3 \'a0No\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Simple setup\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Remember: Whenever you need help checking something, the student being evaluated\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 should be able to help you.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Ensure that the machine does not have a graphical environment at launch.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A password will be requested before attempting to connect to this machine.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Finally, connect with a user with the help of the student being evaluated.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This user must not be root.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Pay attention to the password chosen, it must follow the rules imposed in the subject.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Check that the UFW service is started with the help of the evaluator.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Check that the SSH service is started with the help of the evaluator.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Check that the chosen operating system is Debian or CentOS with the help of the evaluator.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 If something does not work as expected or is not clearly explained,\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 \'a0Yes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb7 \strokec3 \'a0No\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 User\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Remember: Whenever you need help checking something, the student being evaluated\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 should be able to help you.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 The subject requests that a user with the login of the student being evaluated is present\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 on the virtual machine. Check that it has been added and that it belongs to the\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 "sudo" and "user42" groups.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Make sure the rules imposed in the subject concerning the password policy have been put in place by\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 following the following steps.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 First, create a new user. Assign it a password of your choice, respecting the subject rules. The\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 student being evaluated must now explain to you how they were able to set up the rules requested\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 in the subject on their virtual machine.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Normally there should be one or two modified files. If there is any problem, the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Now that you have a new user, ask the student being evaluated to create a group named "evaluating" in\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 front of you and assign it to this user. Finally, check that this user belongs to the "evaluating" group.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Finally, ask the student being evaluated to explain the advantages of this password policy, as well as the\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 advantages and disadvantages of its implementation. Of course, answering that it is because the subject asks\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 for it does not count.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 If something does not work as expected or is not clearly explained, the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 \'a0Yes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb7 \strokec3 \'a0No\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Hostname and partitions\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Remember: Whenever you need help checking something, the student being evaluated\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 should be able to help you.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Check that the hostname of the machine is correctly formatted as follows:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 login42 (login of the student being evaluated).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Modify this hostname by replacing the login with yours, then restart the machine.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 If on restart, the hostname has not been updated, the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - You can now restore the machine to the original hostname.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Ask the student being evaluated how to view the partitions for this virtual machine.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Compare the output with the example given in the subject. Please note: if the\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 student evaluated makes the bonuses, it will be necessary to refer to the bonus example.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 This part is an opportunity to discuss the scores! The student being evaluated should\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 give you a brief explanation of how LVM works and what it is all about.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 If something does not work as expected or is not clearly explained,\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 \'a0Yes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb7 \strokec3 \'a0No\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 SUDO\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Remember: Whenever you need help checking something, the student being evaluated\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 should be able to help you.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Check that the "sudo" program is properly installed on the virtual machine.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - The student being evaluated should now show assigning your new user to the "sudo" group.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - The subject imposes strict rules for sudo. The student being evaluated must first explain the\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 value and operation of sudo using examples of their choice.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In a second step, it must show you the implementation of the rules imposed by the subject.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Verify that the "/var/log/sudo/" folder exists and has at least one file. Check the contents\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 of the files in this folder, You should see a history of the commands used with sudo.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Finally, try to run a command via sudo. See if the file (s) in the "/var/log/sudo/" folder\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 have been updated.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 If something does not work as expected or is not clearly explained, the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 \'a0Yes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb7 \strokec3 \'a0No\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 UFW\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Remember: Whenever you need help checking something, the student being evaluated\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 should be able to help you.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Check that the "UFW" program is properly installed on the virtual machine.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Check that it is working properly.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - The student being evaluated should explain to you basically what UFW is and the\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 value of using it.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - List the active rules in UFW. A rule must exist for port 4242.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Add a new rule to open port 8080. Check that this one has been added by listing the active rules.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Finally, delete this new rule with the help of the student being evaluated.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 If something does not work as expected or is not clearly explained, the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 \'a0Yes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb7 \strokec3 \'a0No\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 SSH\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Remember: Whenever you need help checking something, the student being evaluated\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 should be able to help you.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 - Check that the SSH service is properly installed on the virtual machine.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Check that it is working properly.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - The student being evaluated must be able to explain to you basically what SSH is and\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 the value of using it.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Verify that the SSH service only uses port 4242.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - The student being evaluated should help you use SSH in order to log in with the newly created user.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 To do this, you can use a key or a simple password. It will depend on the student being evaluated.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Of course, you have to make sure that you cannot use SSH with the "root" user as stated in the subject.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 If something does not work as expected or is not clearly explained, the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 \'a0Yes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb7 \strokec3 \'a0No\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Script monitoring\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Remember: Whenever you need help checking something, the student being evaluated\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 should be able to help you.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 The student being evaluated should explain to you simply:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - How their script works by showing you the code.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - What "cron" is.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - How the student being evaluated set up their script so that it runs every 10 minutes\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 from when the server starts.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Once the correct functioning of the script has been verified, the student being evaluated\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 should ensure that this script runs every minute. You can run whatever you want\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 to make sure the script runs with dynamic values correctly. Finally, the student being evaluated\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 should make the script stop running when the server has started up, but without\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 modifying the script itself. To check this point, you will have to restart\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 the server one last time. At startup, it will be necessary to check that the script\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 still exists in the same place, that its rights have remained unchanged, and that it\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 has not been modified.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 If something does not work as expected or is not clearly explained, the evaluation stops here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \strokec5 \'a0Yes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb7 \strokec3 \'a0No\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa440\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl600\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Bonus\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Evaluate the bonus part if, and only if, the mandatory part has been entirely and perfectly done, and the error management handles unexpected or bad usage. In case all the mandatory points were not passed during the defense, bonus points must be totally ignored.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f0\i0\b\fs40 \cf2 \cb3 Bonus\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa220\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 Check, with the help of the subject and the student being evaluated, the bonus\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 points authorized for this project:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Setting up partitions is worth 2 points.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - Setting up WordPress, only with the services required by the subject,\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 is worth 2 points.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 - The free choice service is worth 1 point.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Verify and test the proper functioning and implementation of each extra\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 service.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For the free choice service, the student being evaluated has to give you a\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 simple explanation about how it works and why they think it is useful.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Please note that NGINX and Apache2 are prohibited.\cb1 \
}